like to think that back in the days of
kings and queens men were entirely in
charge and women just worked and had
children or looked pretty and that it
was only recently that all this changed
but sometimes things are not quite that
simple
you can find women and girls running
whole kingdoms in the middle ages like
eleanor of aquitaine in france or
lakshmi by in india who fought the
british it's much rarer to find women
ceos running banks tripping corporations
today
obviously you want things to be a little
better than in the middle ages
and in a lot of ways they are
but
in other ways you really haven't caught
up with them yet
some kings had hundreds of wives that
they locked away so no one else could
see them
others were trapped in the palace
themselves and only their wives or
mothers could go out
sometimes in china or some african
kingdoms the king's mother would really
run the government this is if the king's
trapped
while the king went off to war buried
himself with games and ceremonies
was locked in the palace sometimes if
the king died either his wife or
daughter would take over instead
some queens even strapped on armor and
fought in wars boudicia and
um
england or in vietnam there were famous
two sisters who led the first of many
wars of vietnamese independence lots of
heroic warrior women who actually did
exist sometimes even vikings um they
turn out the
they find these warrior viking burials
and they analyze the bones oh
that one's female
often though you get the feeling that
most men back then didn't want women to
become kings because they were afraid
women would be
just a little bit too good at it
most men are kind of insecure
i guess they always have been
there's a middle eastern story that
illustrates this so once upon a time
there was a great king of assyria
who was known to history as anonymous we
don't know what his real name was or if
he really existed uh but the story was
everywhere um according to the story
nana's had a servant
named semoramus
uh
when summer almost became one of the
most famous women in history she did
seem to have existed
but um no one's quite sure what the
story has to do with her actual life all
right so
according to the story nana's had a
servant named ramos a girl who's very
clever and pretty and he dearly loved
every year there was a great festival
and one game they used to play during
the festival was kind of king for a day
someone would pretend to be king and
everybody would have to do whatever they
said but just for 24 hours
so the day before the festival sema
rama's son went to her uh went to nana's
and she said oh can i be queen for a day
call would be really cool please and and
nana said oh yeah well okay why not
it'll be kind of fun to put the servant
crawl in charge and he ordered everyone
to make believe samuramas was really
queen
so learning the story as soon as the
crown was placed on her head samurais
called in the king's generals and
bodyguard and he said she said
so
i don't think king nanas treats you very
well does he uh in fact i think he's
pretty bad to you
you don't really like him do you um
before the day was over nanas was locked
away in a dungeon somewhere and sami
ramos was actually queen uh and it
turned out
samurais was really good at it um she
was much better at being um running a
kingdom than anonymous had ever been
even though anonymous wasn't bad right
none of us had an empire but she
expanded the empire to become the
greatest empire in world history
according to stories she not only built
the city of babylon okay she was
responsible for the hanging gardens uh
and a whole bunch of other great cities
according to the stories she was the
greatest conqueror in world history she
conquered a giant empire that stretched
all the way from india to ethiopia
and
apparently alexander the great was
really obsessed with semi-ramas he felt
he was a failure in life because he was
trying to reconstruct semi-ramas empire
she was like his great rival and enemy
because everywhere you go in persia
people would say oh well yeah that's
impressive but you know i saw him around
us
and he's like some girl couldn't do
better than me i'm gonna go into india i
don't care and that's basically got his
army destroyed uh and and he ended up
you know sort of exploring like how to
get to ethiopia once again to reproduce
her exploits and it's eventually what
killed him